# PyBer Analysis

## Overview

### Purpose

The purpose of this analysis is to assist V. Isualize, the CEO, and Omar, the head of data, to improve access to ride-sharing services. PyBer is a Python based ride-sharing app company that serves three city types: Rural, Urban and Suburban. A summary DataFrame of the ride-sharing data by city type was generated by performing an exploratory analysis on data with Python. Additionally, a multiple-line chart was created using Matplotlib to showcase the relationship between total fares and type of city.

This analysis can be used to inform discussion and assist the CEO and management to determine affordability for underserved neighborhoods.

## Results

### Datasets and Files

The PyBer analysis is based on the following datasets: 
* City Data: [city_data](Resources/city_data.csv)
* Ride Data: [ride_data](Resources/ride_data.csv)

The PyBer analysis is available here: [PyBer_Challenge](PyBer_Challenge.ipynb)

### Software and Application

The software and web-based application used for this analysis are:

* Python 3.7.11 (using PythonData environment and Pandas Library)
* Jupyter Notebook 6.4.6
* Matplotlib 

### Outcomes 
The summary Dataframe is a high-level snapshot of PyBer's key metrics: 

- Total Rides
- Total Drivers
- Total Fares
- Average Fare per Ride
- Average Fare per Driver

As stated earlier PyBer serves three city types: Rural, Urban and Suburban. To showcase the ride-sharing data by city type the following summary DataFrame was created:

![PyBer_summary_df[(PyBer_summary_df.png)

In the summary DataFrame, the urban cities have the highest number of total rides at 1,625, total drivers at 2,405, and total amount of fares at $39,854.38. However, urban cities have the lowest average fare per ride at $24.53 and average fare per driver at $16.57. Clearly, this market is sustained by a high demand of rides and a high supply of drivers. As per the rural cities, it has the lowest number of total rides at 125 and total drivers at 78, although due to the low supply of drivers and the long distances between destinations it has the highest average fare per ride at $34.62 and average fare per driver at $55.49. The overall ride activity in Suburban cities places them in the middle of urban and rural cities, but its important to note the demand of rides is higher than the supply of drivers, thus resulting at a higher-end of average fare per ride at $30.97 and average fare per driver at $39.50.     


## Summary
There is a statement summarizing three business recommendations to the CEO for addressing any disparities among the city types. 





